https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rcwdJeB9g9FauQbQInQ0OhmiLyLh-Hq4n6kY_dneByo/edit?usp=sharing




How to Tell if a Job is a Scam
Job scams are an unfortunate reality in the job market. Scammers know that job searchers can be frustrated, tired, and financially strapped, so they often target unemployed people, recent graduates, or people with gaps in their work history in the hopes that they’ll let their guard down. Don’t be fooled! 
Learn the signs of a scam below, and if something ever doesn’t quite “feel right,” don’t hesitate to ask a career coach during office hours or post in #career_help support! 

#1 Rule: Never share private information like your SSN, bank account, drivers license number, etc. before going through a formal interview and offer process.

Signs of a scam:
You get an email with a generic domain name (gmail, yahoo, hotmail, etc.) instead of the company’s domain name, and/or the person’s name does not match the email address.
Someone asks for personal information up front like your SSN, date of birth, exact street (or former) address, bank account information, etc. Note that staffing agencies may ask for this before putting you on an assignment with a client; this is normal, but research the staffing agency and recruiter you’re working with to make sure they are legitimate.
You get offered a job without ever having interviewed, OR you get offered a technical role without demonstrating your abilities via a technical interview or take-home assignment.
You never speak to anyone directly on the phone, over video, or in person, and/or they conduct interviews over a messaging platform.
Emails have significant spelling and grammar errors. 
You are asked to pay for training, software, or your own background check or credit report. 
You can’t find any information about the company online, or the website looks fake.
Vague job descriptions with no real requirements or responsibilities.
It sounds too good to be true- 20 hour work weeks, unlimited PTO, work from home, great benefits, and $250,000/year?! This is definitely a scam.

Other things to watch out for:
Multi-level marketing (MLM): these aren’t strictly illegal, but you probably don’t want to get involved in one! They require an “investment” from you up front in a product or services, which you then sell to others. Fewer than 1% of MLM participants make a clear profit in the lifetime of their enterprise.1 Look out for people aggressively selling you on “starting a home business” and “creating a passive income.” Pyramid schemes are similar in structure, but don’t involve an actual product. Unlike MLMs, pyramid schemes are illegal in the US. Learn more about both here.

Fake employees of a real company: You might be talking to someone who “works” at a real company, and their LinkedIn profile may even show that they work there! If things seem off, make sure they’re using a valid company email address, and look out for an email signature with a company logo and phone number. Compare these to what you find when you search the company online. You can also call the company to confirm your status as a candidate.

Validating an employer:
Unsure if an opportunity is legitimate? Here are some steps to validate if the job is real:
Many companies post jobs on many sites. Check that any job you find on job boards like Craigslist, Indeed, Monster, etc. are also posted on the company website. Compare the descriptions to make sure they are the same job (don’t just go by the title).
While many employees don’t have business numbers and may use their personal cell phones to call you, all emails should be with valid company email domains. Make sure all email correspondence matches the company domain name. 
Good sign: recruiter@lambdaschool.com
Red flag: recruiter@lambda.dev 
If you are corresponding with someone through a non-company email address, ask if they can share their company email so you can communicate there.
If the company has a staff directory on their website, try to find your point of contact.
Call the main company phone number, and ask to be transferred to your point of contact- just make sure you have a question or good reason for calling so if you do get transferred, you have something to say!
If you do the above and cannot find any sign that this is a real job/person, it’s ok to call the company (or email a generic HR or contact email address) to express your concern that someone is posing as an employee, and transparently ask them to validate the opportunity and your application.
Remember- when in doubt, ask a career coach!


Have you been targeted by a job scam? You can, and should, report it!

