
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Rs57rFUzlYscdsEUgwVFd1I9iK7CvkL9zSmFncIY31Q/edit?usp=sharing


OBJECTIVE 1: Use storytelling strategies (like that of STAR and FEB) to structure a response to behavioral interview questions
Record a video of yourself answering ONE of the following questions using STAR, FEB, or FAB. Before doing so, identify what you understand to be the question theme. 
Give an example of a time you had to overcome conflict or disagreement with someone you worked with in order to fulfill a task or project. 
How do you manage competing responsibilities?
Give an example of feedback you have received, and how you acted upon that feedback.

Question theme: 

After recording yourself answering the question, watch the video and jot down what points you hit related to each framework. Watching yourself answering a question can give you perspective on how you communicate, what you do well, and ideas for improvement. 

(S)ituation: 
	One time when I worked at a Retail Store (99 cent store) a customer had a complaint to make about the supervisors on duty. The situation was the customer was unhappy with both supervisors' attitudes. They refused to unlock the door to the restroom while I was out collecting carts. They both declined to unlock the door for the customer and demanded she wait until I was finished outside collecting every cart. As I walked into the store I could see she was upset with them saying she was not going to buy anything from the store and was planning to use the restroom to the taco bell down the block instead because she is no longer a customer.  
(T)ask: 
	For me the task I automatically thought of while she approached me was to remain calm and keep a great attitude with the customer. I did this by agreeing with the customer and taking sides with them on the situation. I knew that customers got very angry they would refuse to unlock the restroom door and I knew arguments would get sparked every time this happened. However I still think I should not have to be the only one to open the restroom door every time someone wants to use the restroom. 
(A)ction:
	After agreeing with the customer that the supervisors did have bad attitudes and that it was unethical she had no positive managers to talk to while having her items charged and waiting to use the restroom, I asserted to her I was only an employee and could not change the supervisors attitudes. It seemed to be a personality defect most supervisors had within the company and I was not a trained psychologist that could make these people’s attitudes change. Hoping this would put her in better spirits I gave her the number to corporate offices for the retail store and told her to make a note of the store number, my name, and the time and date while calling corporate so she could place a complaint. I said this had happened many times before with different people and this is all I can think of to do. Since there were so many complaints I got about the supervisors from the customers about this I was sure at least one of these customers would call corporate offices one day to place a complaint about their attitudes to prevent many of these verbal confrontations with customers.
(R)esults:
	At the end of the conversation I provided better customer service than the supervisors did. I think this added to the result because now the customer was in better spirits upon going to Taco Bells restroom. She also had a better idea of things to talk about. I gave her extra complaints to make of the supervisors to better draft what she would say while calling corporate offices. These extra complaints were details only an employee might say but if they came from a customer it might shed better light on the situation. I told her if I have to continue sympathising with every customer those supervisors ring up or have verbal confrontation with then I might as well be the supervisor instead because they are killing their customers off. At this rate these battles happen at least twice a week that I noticed. Whether the complaint was ever placed or not from that customer or any other customers is unknown since I never saw those customers again after those conversations. However I did not ever see a change in attitude from any of the supervisors, since they always remained extremely cranky the following years after; and also wholeheartedly still insisted they could never help a customer into the restroom by unlocking the door or telling them the code. I honestly think that is why I had to clean urine and feces up off the ground with a mop on several isles within the store many different times. This could also be a link to the reason as to why I would see even worse within those restrooms on the walls and on the ground. It was a constant battle of repercussions I had to face on an issue I never agreed with but still had to solve though the managers were perpetuating those situations every time. I was never paid enough for any of that and it was a terrible job. I really regret ever working there because of the added stress the managers would make with confrontation. In the end nothing ever got solved and they still did the same things anyway right up to the day I left.  

or

(F)eature:
	
(E)xample or (A)ccomplishment:
(B)enefit:

STRETCH GOAL (Optional): 
Now, using the same question, record yourself using the opposite strategy from which you elected above as a framework. 

(S)ituation:
(T)ask:
(A)ction:
(R)esults:

or

(F)eature:
(E)xample or (A)ccomplishment:
(B)enefit:
 

 
OBJECTIVE 2: Prepare to tailor and deliver answers to interview questions towards a specific company
For this part of the sprint, you’ll need to look up a company for whom you aspire to work for. 
 
Navigate to the company’s website or content produced by the company and identify their mission, vision, product, or services. Paste a link to what you’ve found or paste the content that highlights some information you’ve discovered below.
 
Company name: Blizzard Entertainment
 
Mission, vision, about, services or purpose (link to the related pages or paste some highlights below): 
 
	Blizzard Entertainment is looking for a skilled and inventive individual to create and maintain the interface World of Warcraft. The ideal candidate should possess outstanding aesthetic design and illustration skills along with the ability to create clean, functional interfaces for complex gameplay features. The candidate should also be familiar with the stylistic themes of World of Warcraft and exhibit the ability to develop new and compelling user interface features that match.
 
COVID-19 Hiring Update: We’ve transitioned to a work-from-home model and we’re continuing to interview and hire during this time. This role is expected to begin as a remote position. We understand each person’s circumstances may be unique and will work with you to explore possible interim options.
 
 
 
Answer one of the two questions below as if you were talking to an interviewer from the company you have identified. Try to authentically incorporate parts of what you learned from the company’s mission, vision, about, or purpose into your answer. 
 
Where do you see yourself in 3-5 years? 	
OR 	
What do you know about our company? Why do you want to work here?
	Although I have heard the game development business is very volatile because it has been said they may suffer many ups and downs through the year depending on if the games released or companies marketing, I also  know Blizzard is an excellent company because of the games they sell and create. I’ve been playing their games ever since warcraft II came out on PC in 1998. I’ve always wanted to work for this company and it is the interest in games that has sparked my attention to join software development. I think if I was employed at their company I could keep the job for many years to come if the company let me. If I did remain there for over 5 years and started becoming a very confident programmer where I knew how to program with the technology they used very well I would want to look into how to become an ethical pen tester. 
I know testing is a very large part of software development and you should not make professional software without well written tests that pass or fail. If I felt like I had mastered software development after 5 years within the company and I felt I did not need to know any other languages except the ones I currently used to make money then I would want to put an emphasis on the study of security within applications and games. I think if I could be a software developer and an ethical pen tester it would put me in higher demand while in tech because it should increase my skill level. I would hope that it would push my coding skills to be as fast and secure as possible. In a game if there are cheats or hacks to twist the system to function the way it was never intended to, I would want to know of a way to test for this first so I could do what is needed to prevent these cheats or unethical hacks from ever taking place even one time. This way the end-user gets the fastest, most secure version of the game possible. And if there are hacks that are still taking place on the end finished product, I would want a way to log these attacks so the right security patches could be made for the game. Everyone should be entitled to privacy and an agreement that the game or system should never function in any way it was never intended to be run.        
 
STRETCH GOAL (Optional): 
Answer the question “Tell me a little bit about yourself” in such a way that connects to the company you are interviewing with. Highlight the skills and experiences that you think relate to the company and well position you to join the company/team. 
 
 

SUBMISSION: 
Submit the URL for this worksheet to the Career Readiness Sprint Form.

