Behavioral Interview Practice 3
Intro [20 minutes]
[Zoom master -Drop the Zoom link in your Track Team Slack channel, with a quick warm-up icebreaker (ex. Favorite movie watching snack), and start the meeting for your team]

[2-3 min] Promise tracker(s) -Take a few minutes to welcome everyone to the team and review the outline for this session.

[20 min] Zoom master- Before diving into the content for today, hold a quick stand-up. Ask each team member to go around and quickly share out what they worked on for today, any blockers they're still having on their project, and if they need help debugging anything. After everyone has shared, if anyone has asked for help debugging, have them share their screen and show their code. If this portion ends up going longer as you review your curriculum content, or you want to break off for some pair programming with your unit partner as an alternative to the activity below, that's okay!

Promise tracker(s) -Be sure to keep note of the time and keep things moving! When it's time to transition to the next part, let your team know.
Note taker(s) -Share out the meeting notes in your Track Team Slack channel.
A few sprints back, we were able to practice how to provide effective feedback to one another, as this is one of the most important ingredients in building constructive relationships and thriving teams. During this sprint, we will use what we have learned to host daily behavioral mock interview practices in order to build trust, openness, and opportunities for your team to gain self-awareness and insight on behavioral interviews. After the daily activity, you can also reflect and watch other pre-recorded technical and behavioral interview development sessions on your own that day, or at a later date.

Behavioral Mock Interview Activity [30 minutes]
In today's activity, you will be doing a behavioral mock interview practice in a fishbowl style setting. A fishbowl style interview practice will allow you to be in a zoom room with other students where you will be able to answer interview questions effectively, while learning to be comfortable in an uncomfortable environment. This will also allow other students to address recommendations on how to answer particular behavioral questions, and have them learn alternative ways to answer certain questions as well.

The zoom masterbegins recording.

The facilitatorshould read the prompt and keep an eye on time while the team navigates today's activity. At the end of the session, the facilitator will open up the floor to questions or feedback students had about the behavioral mock interview.

Today we are going to practice giving general feedback to one another by asking and answering behavioral mock interview questions. When everyone is ready to begin, the interviewer (Note Taker) should begin asking the interviewee (Promise Tracker) the questions.

Be sure you are using the best practices of giving feedback that you have learned in previous modules.

Note Takershould be the interviewer for today and will ask the following questions below (answer key will be at the bottom of the page) to the promise keeper (interviewee). Make sure to take detailed notes that includes constructive feedback on the interviewees responses and nonverbals. Feel free to get deeper insight on some points your interviewee might touch on throughout the interview.

How would your co-workers describe you?
Tell me about a time where you and your teammates did not agree?
Why should we hire you?
What's your dream job?
Can you explain why you changed career paths?
Promise Trackerwill serve as the interviewee and must ensure all questions are addressed. The promise keeper may review and anticipate the questions for the day, but please try to not look at the answers key.

If there is still more time after the debrief, the group may choose to switch roles and ask one another the same questions for the day.

Answers Key

Up sell your soft skills here, be careful about being overly arrogant sounding or too cheesy.
Again anytime you provide an obstacle or any kind of negative - make sure they also provide how they fixed it or a solution
Another good opportunity to up sale your tech/soft skills - you should have an idea of what the job description is that you're interviewing for so rope in some of those qualifications here - Your job here is to craft an answer that covers three things: that you can not only do the work, you can deliver great results; that you'll really fit in with the team and culture; and that you'd be a better hire than any of the other candidates.
Break it down into three parts, like this: What Skills Do You Want to Use? What Interests You? What Are Your Values?
Explain to the hiring manager why you've made the career decisions you have. More importantly, give a few examples of how your past experience is transferable to the new role. This doesn't have to be a direct connection; in fact, it's often more impressive when a candidate can make seemingly irrelevant experience seem very relevant to the role. But also SHOW YOUR PASSION FOR ENGINEERING!
Daily Interview Prep Video [60 minutes On Your Own]
Behavioral Interviewing:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsJJe0i30-c&feature=youtu.be (Links to an external site.)

